docs/tests/diffusion.rst, before:

Diffusion
=========

Model
-----

The example model `single-compartment-diffusion <https://github.com/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor/blob/master/src/core/resources/models/single-compartment-diffusion.xml>`_ is a single compartment that contains two species: 'fast' and 'slow', each with the same analytic initial distribution

.. math::

   c_s(t=0) = e^{-((x-48)^2+(y-48)^2)/36}

The two species have different diffusion coefficients: :math:`D=1cm^2/s` for species 'slow', and :math:`D=3cm^2/s` for species 'fast', and the model contains no reactions.

Analytic solution
-----------------

For this system without reactions, we are simulating the two-dimensional diffusion equation,

.. math::

   \frac{\partial c_s}{\partial t} = D_s \left( \frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2}{\partial y^2} \right) c_s

where

* :math:`c_s` is the concentration of species :math:`s` at position :math:`(x, y)` and time :math:`t`
* :math:`D_s` is the diffusion constant for species :math:`s`

For the initial condition :math:`c_s(t=0) = \delta(x)\delta(y)`, the analytic solution at time `t` of this equation is the `heat kernel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heat_kernel>`_:

.. math::

   c_s(t) = \frac{1}{4 \pi D_s t}e^{-(x^2+y^2)/(4 D_s t)}

and a solution for our model can then be found by convolving this expression with our initial condition, to give

.. math::

   c_s(t) = \frac{t}{t+t_0}e^{-((x-48)^2+(y-48)^2)/(4 D_s (t+t_0))}

where :math:`t_0 = 9/D_s`. Note that this solution ignores boundary effects, so will not be valid at late times or close to the compartment boundary.

The total amount of species in the compartment is a conserved quantity

.. math::

   \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} c_s(t) dx dy = 36 \pi

Commit message:

Plot improvements (#148)
- user can now select
    - which species to display
    - whether or not to show min/max ranges
  - add units to time/concentration axes labels
  - add title to plot

Image improvements
- user can now select intensity normalisation
    - normalise each species to max concentration in compartment at each time
    - normalise to max concentration in compartment over entire simulation (i.e. all times)
- user can create slice of image stack
    - simulation produces a set of 2d images at different times -> 3d array of x,y,t points
    - user can take a slice at fixed x or fixed y and generate an image from the other two coordinates
    - i.e. the x-axis on the image is time

Pixel simulator
  - now calculates max stability bound for stepsize from diffusion coefficients
  - if requested stepsize is greater than this it uses the max bound instead
  - note: doesn't help us if reaction terms are stiffer than the diffusion term though

Minor fixes
  - min/max areas on simulation graph were not plotted correctly
  - typo in analytic expression in docs/tests/diffusion.rst

docs/tests/diffusion.rst, after:

Diffusion
=========

Model
-----

The example model `single-compartment-diffusion <https://github.com/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor/blob/master/src/core/resources/models/single-compartment-diffusion.xml>`_ is a single compartment that contains two species: 'fast' and 'slow', each with the same analytic initial distribution

.. math::

   c_s(t=0) = e^{-((x-48)^2+(y-48)^2)/36}

The two species have different diffusion coefficients: :math:`D=1cm^2/s` for species 'slow', and :math:`D=3cm^2/s` for species 'fast', and the model contains no reactions.

Analytic solution
-----------------

For this system without reactions, we are simulating the two-dimensional diffusion equation,

.. math::

   \frac{\partial c_s}{\partial t} = D_s \left( \frac{\partial^2}{\partial x^2} + \frac{\partial^2}{\partial y^2} \right) c_s

where

* :math:`c_s` is the concentration of species :math:`s` at position :math:`(x, y)` and time :math:`t`
* :math:`D_s` is the diffusion constant for species :math:`s`

For the initial condition :math:`c_s(t=0) = \delta(x)\delta(y)`, the analytic solution at time `t` of this equation is the `heat kernel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heat_kernel>`_:

.. math::

   c_s(t) = \frac{1}{4 \pi D_s t}e^{-(x^2+y^2)/(4 D_s t)}

and a solution for our model can then be found by convolving this expression with our initial condition, to give

.. math::

   c_s(t) = \frac{t_0}{t+t_0}e^{-((x-48)^2+(y-48)^2)/(4 D_s (t+t_0))}

where :math:`t_0 = 9/D_s`. Note that this solution ignores boundary effects, so will not be valid at late times or close to the compartment boundary.

The total amount of species in the compartment is a conserved quantity,

.. math::

   \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} c_s(t) dx dy = 36 \pi

 and this is also valid at late times, since our zero flux Neumann boundary conditions also conserve the amount of species in the compartment.
