test/README.md, before:

# Tests

## C++ tests

The C++ tests are located in the same place as the corresponding source files: each component `X` has a header file `X.hpp`, a source file `X.cpp`, and a tests source file `X_t.cpp`. They can be ran with

```
make test
```

Alternatively you can get more output and select which tests to run by passing command line arguments directly to the test executable.

For example to exclude tests tagged with `[gui]`, show successful tests results (`-s`), and abort at the first failed test (`-a`):

```
./test/tests -as "~[gui]"
```

Or to list (without running) all tests that are tagged `[simulate]` and not tagged `[gui]`:

```
./test/tests -l "[simulate]~[gui]"
```

See the Catch2 [command-line documentation](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/blob/master/docs/command-line.md#top) for more options.

Note: currently the GUI tests are only intended for use on linux, and the mouse and keyboard should not be used while the tests are running as this can interfere with the simulated mouse and keyboard events generated by the test.

## Python tests

The python tests are in [test.py](test.py), and can be ran from the root directory of the repo with

```
python -m unittest -v
```

Commit message:

improve sme api (#369)
- add custom read-only list-like pybind11 opaque type
    - user can iterate over contents
    - look-up element by name
    - look-up element by index
    - avoids making copies of list or contents of list
  - improves api for user
    - previously had ugly interface with separate function for name-based lookup:
      - list: model.compartments
      - indexed lookup: model.compartments[0]
      - name-based lookup: model.compartment("name")
    - now uniform interface:
      - list: model.compartments
      - indexed lookup: model.compartments[0]
      - name-based lookup: model.compartments["name"]

also

  - split unittests, one file for each class
  - add doctest code snippets to Docstrings
  - add sme_doctest.py to run doctest on these code snippets
  - add doctests to linux CI build
  - add python tests to windows 32-bit CI wheel builds

test/README.md, after:

# Tests

## C++ tests

The C++ tests are located in the same place as the corresponding source files: each component `X` has a header file `X.hpp`, a source file `X.cpp`, and a tests source file `X_t.cpp`. They can be ran with

```
make test
```

Alternatively you can get more output and select which tests to run by passing command line arguments directly to the test executable.

For example to exclude tests tagged with `[gui]`, show successful tests results (`-s`), and abort at the first failed test (`-a`):

```
./test/tests -as "~[gui]"
```

Or to list (without running) all tests that are tagged `[simulate]` and not tagged `[gui]`:

```
./test/tests -l "[simulate]~[gui]"
```

See the Catch2 [command-line documentation](https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/blob/master/docs/command-line.md#top) for more options.

Note: currently the GUI tests are only intended for use on linux, and the mouse and keyboard should not be used while the tests are running as this can interfere with the simulated mouse and keyboard events generated by the test.

## Python tests

The python tests are in [../sme/test](../sme/test), and can be ran from this directory with

```
python -m unittest -v
```

The Docstrings also contain example code snippets along with the expected output in doctest format, which can be tested with

```
python sme_doctest.py -v
```
