sme/README.md, before:


# sme

[![pypi releases](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/sme.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/sme)
[![open in colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor/blob/master/sme/sme_getting_started.ipynb)
[![python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/sme)](https://pypi.org/project/sme)

sme is a python interface to the [Spatial Model Editor](https://github.com/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor).

It can be installed from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/sme/) using pip:

```
pip install sme
```

Or you can [try it out][1] online using Google Colab
(click on `Runtime -> Run all` or press `Ctrl+F9` to get started)

[1]: https://colab.research.google.com/github/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor/blob/master/sme/sme_getting_started.ipynb

Documentation: <https://spatial-model-editor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/python.html>

Supported platforms and python versions:

- linux

  - CPython: 2.7, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

  - PyPy: 2.7, 3.6

- macOS 10.14+

  - CPython: 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

  - PyPy: 2.7, 3.6

- windows 64-bit

  - CPython: 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

- windows 32-bit

  - CPython: 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

  - PyPy: 3.6

Commit message:

improve sme python interface (#311)
- model.simulate() returns list of SimulationResult objects
    - each contains
       - timepoint
       - concentrations image (list of list of list: img[y][x] = [r,g,b])
       - dict of species name : concentration (list of list of double: c[y][x])
    - images & concentrations can then be plotted with matplotlib imshow()
    - resolves #277
  - sme objects return children (e.g. compartment.reactions) as a list, not dict
    - dict of name:object pairs could become out of sync if name is changed
    - list is also easier to iterate over / index into for user
  - add helper functions (e.g. compartment.reaction('name')) to look up a child by name
    - equivalent functionality to previous dict implementation
    - but won't get out of sync with model
  - update getting started notebook
  - bump version to 0.9.3

sme/README.md, after:


# sme

[![pypi releases](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/sme.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/sme)
[![open in colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor/blob/master/sme/sme_getting_started.ipynb)
[![python versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/sme)](https://pypi.org/project/sme)

sme is a python interface to the [Spatial Model Editor](https://github.com/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor).

It can be used to modify parameters in a model and to simulate a model.

It can be installed from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/sme/) using pip:

```
pip install sme
```

You can also [try it out][1] online without installing anything using Google Colab
(click on `Runtime -> Run all` or press `Ctrl+F9` to get started)

[1]: https://colab.research.google.com/github/lkeegan/spatial-model-editor/blob/master/sme/sme_getting_started.ipynb

Documentation: <https://spatial-model-editor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/python.html>

Supported platforms and python versions:

- linux

  - CPython: 2.7, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

  - PyPy: 2.7, 3.6, 3.7

- macOS 10.14+

  - CPython: 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

  - PyPy: 2.7, 3.6

- windows 64-bit

  - CPython: 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

- windows 32-bit

  - CPython: 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9

  - PyPy: 3.6
