docs/reference/units.rst, before:

Units
=====

Fundamental Units
-----------------

To describe a spatial model we need to define the following fundamental units:

- `amount` (e.g. `Mole`)
- `length` (e.g. `metre`)
- `time` (e.g. `second`)

For convenience we also treat volume as a fundamental unit

- `volume` (e.g. `litre`)

Derived Units
-------------

All quantities in the model have units that can be written as some combination of these fundamental units:

- species concentrations
    - have units of `amount / volume`
- reactions *inside* a compartment
    - describe the rate of change of the concentration of species
    - have units of `concentration / time`, i.e. `amount / volume / time`
- reactions *between* two compartments
    - describe that rate at which a unit amount of species crosses a unit area of the *membrane*
    - where the membrane is the area where the two compartments touch each other
    - have units of `amount / membrane-area / time`, i.e. `amount / length^2 / time`
- diffusion constants
    - have units of `area / time`, i.e. `length^2 / time`

Commit message:

- display units of reaction rates in GUI - update units reference docs

docs/reference/units.rst, after:

Units
=====

Fundamental Units
-----------------

To describe a spatial model we need to define the following fundamental units:

- `amount` (e.g. `Mole`)
- `length` (e.g. `metre`)
- `time` (e.g. `second`)

Volume is given by `length`^3, but for user convenience we also treat volume as a fundamental unit

- `volume` (e.g. `litre`)

This allows the use of units such as `cm` for length and `mMol/mL` for concentration, instead of the equivalent but less common `mMol/cm^3`.

Derived Units
-------------

All quantities in the model have units that can be written as some combination of these fundamental units:

- species concentrations
    - have units of `amount / volume`
- reactions *inside* a compartment
    - describe the rate of change of the concentration of species
    - have units of `concentration / time`, i.e. `amount / volume / time`
- reactions *between* two compartments
    - describe that rate at which a unit amount of species crosses a unit area of the *membrane*
    - where the membrane is the area where the two compartments touch each other
    - have units of `amount / membrane-area / time`, i.e. `amount / length^2 / time`
- diffusion constants
    - have units of `area / time`, i.e. `length^2 / time`
